BugList.md, before:

## Bugs Found by Alive2

This document lists the bugs found so far by Alive2 in LLVM & Z3.
Please contact us or submit a PR if something is missing or inaccurate.


### Bugs found in LLVM
1. Incorrect fold of 'x & (-1 >> y) s>= x' (https://llvm.org/PR39861)
2. Incorrect instcombine fold for icmp sgt (https://llvm.org/PR42198)
3. Instsimplify: uadd_overflow(X, undef) is not undef (https://llvm.org/PR42209)
4. CVP: adding nuw flags not correct in the presence of undef (https://llvm.org/PR42618)
5. DivRemPairs is incorrect in the presence of undef (https://llvm.org/PR42619)
6. EmitGEPOffset() incorrectly adds NUW to multiplications (https://llvm.org/PR42699)
7. Incorrect fold of uadd.with.overflow with undef (https://llvm.org/PR43188)
8. Incorrect transformation of bitcast->gep inbounds (https://llvm.org/PR43501)
9. globalopt leaves store to a constant global (https://llvm.org/PR43616)
10. Incorrect fold of ashr+xor -> lshr w/ vectors (https://llvm.org/PR43665)
11. Incorrect 'icmp sle' -> 'icmp slt' w/ vectors (https://llvm.org/PR43730)
12. expandmemcmp generates loads with incorrect alignment (https://llvm.org/PR43880)
13. Shuffle undef mask on vectors with poison elements (https://llvm.org/PR43958)
14. Can't remove shufflevector if input might be poison (https://llvm.org/PR44185)
15. Incorrect instcombine transform: urem -> icmp+zext with vectors (https://llvm.org/PR44186)
16. InstCombine incorrectly shrinks the size of store (https://llvm.org/PR44306)
17. InstCombine incorrectly folds 'gep(bitcast ptr), idx' into 'gep ptr, idx' (https://llvm.org/PR44321)
18. Instcombine: incorrect transformation 'x > (x & undef)' -> 'x > undef' (https://llvm.org/PR44383)
19. memcpyopt adds incorrect align to memset (https://llvm.org/PR44388)
20. Folding 'gep p, (q - p)' to q should check it is never used for loads & stores (https://llvm.org/PR44403)
21. StraightLineStrengthReduce can introduce UB when optimizing 2-dim array gep (https://llvm.org/PR44533)
22. SLPVectorizer should drop nsw flags from add (https://llvm.org/PR44536)
23. InstCombine doesn't propagate correct alignment (https://llvm.org/PR44543)
24. DSE not checking decl of libcalls (https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/commit/87407fc03c82d880cc42330a8e230e7a48174e3c & https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/commit/7f903873b8a937acec2e2cc232e70cba53061352)
25. InstCombine incorrectly rewrites indices of gep inbounds (https://llvm.org/PR44861)
26. InstCombine incorrectly transforms store i64 -> store double (https://llvm.org/PR45152)
27. Incorrect optimization of gep without inbounds + load -> icmp eq (https://llvm.org/PR45210)
28. gep(ptr, undef) isn't undef (https://llvm.org/PR45445)
29. Incorrect transformation: (undef u>> a) ^ -1 -> undef >> a, when a != 0 (https://llvm.org/PR45447)
30. Invalid undef splat in instcombine (https://llvm.org/PR45455)
31. Incorrect transformation of minnum with nnan (https://llvm.org/PR45478)
32. Can't remove insertelement undef (https://llvm.org/PR45481)
33. InstSimplify: fadd (nsz op), +0 incorrectly removed (https://llvm.org/PR45778)
34. Incorrect instcombine fold of control-flow to umul.with.overflow (https://llvm.org/PR45952)
35. Incorrect instcombine fold of vector ult -> sgt (https://llvm.org/PR45954)
36. Jumpthreading introduces jump on poison (https://llvm.org/PR45956)
37. X86InterleavedAccess introduces misaligned loads (https://llvm.org/PR45957)
38. load-store-vectorizer vectorizes non consecutive loads (https://llvm.org/PR46591)
39. Incorrect transformation: mul foo, undef -> shl foo, undef (https://llvm.org/PR47133)
40. Incorrect transformation: (llvm.maximum undef, %x) -> undef (https://llvm.org/PR47567)
41. LoopReroll incorrectly reorders stores across loads when they may alias (https://llvm.org/PR47658)
42. InstCombine: incorrect select operand simplification with undef (https://llvm.org/PR47696)
43. MemCpyOpt: uses sext instead of zext for memcpy/memset size subtraction (https://llvm.org/PR47697)
44. SCEVExpander introduces branch on poison (https://llvm.org/PR47769)
45. Incorrect transformation of fabs with nnan flag (https://llvm.org/PR47960)
46. Loop peeling introduces OOB stores (https://llvm.org/PR48125)
47. Loop vectorizer introduces gep inbounds with negative offset (https://llvm.org/PR48126)
48. DSE incorrectly removes store in function that only triggers UB in one of the branches (https://llvm.org/PR48521)


### Bugs found in Z3
1. Incorrect bitblast for fprem (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2369)
2. Bug in FPA w/ quantifiers (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2596)
3. Bug in FPA w/ quantifiers (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2631)
4. Crash in partial model mode (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2652)
5. Crash when printing multi-precision integer (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2761)
6. Bug with lambdas and quantified variables (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2792)
7. Bug in MBQI (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2822)
8. Bug with equality of arrays w/ lambdas (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/commit/0b14f1b6f6bb33b555bace93d644163987b0c54f)
9. Crash in FPA model construction (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2865)
10. Crash in BV theory assertion (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2878)
11. Assertion violation in SMT equality propagation (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2879)
12. Assertion violation in qe_lite (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/commit/bb5edb7c653f9351fe674630d63cdd2b10338277)
13. SMT internalize doesn't respect the timeout (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/4192)

Commit message:

add another llvm bug found with the new over-abstraction implementation :D

BugList.md, after:

## Bugs Found by Alive2

This document lists the bugs found so far by Alive2 in LLVM & Z3.
Please contact us or submit a PR if something is missing or inaccurate.


### Bugs found in LLVM
1. Incorrect fold of 'x & (-1 >> y) s>= x' (https://llvm.org/PR39861)
2. Incorrect instcombine fold for icmp sgt (https://llvm.org/PR42198)
3. Instsimplify: uadd_overflow(X, undef) is not undef (https://llvm.org/PR42209)
4. CVP: adding nuw flags not correct in the presence of undef (https://llvm.org/PR42618)
5. DivRemPairs is incorrect in the presence of undef (https://llvm.org/PR42619)
6. EmitGEPOffset() incorrectly adds NUW to multiplications (https://llvm.org/PR42699)
7. Incorrect fold of uadd.with.overflow with undef (https://llvm.org/PR43188)
8. Incorrect transformation of bitcast->gep inbounds (https://llvm.org/PR43501)
9. globalopt leaves store to a constant global (https://llvm.org/PR43616)
10. Incorrect fold of ashr+xor -> lshr w/ vectors (https://llvm.org/PR43665)
11. Incorrect 'icmp sle' -> 'icmp slt' w/ vectors (https://llvm.org/PR43730)
12. expandmemcmp generates loads with incorrect alignment (https://llvm.org/PR43880)
13. Shuffle undef mask on vectors with poison elements (https://llvm.org/PR43958)
14. Can't remove shufflevector if input might be poison (https://llvm.org/PR44185)
15. Incorrect instcombine transform: urem -> icmp+zext with vectors (https://llvm.org/PR44186)
16. InstCombine incorrectly shrinks the size of store (https://llvm.org/PR44306)
17. InstCombine incorrectly folds 'gep(bitcast ptr), idx' into 'gep ptr, idx' (https://llvm.org/PR44321)
18. Instcombine: incorrect transformation 'x > (x & undef)' -> 'x > undef' (https://llvm.org/PR44383)
19. memcpyopt adds incorrect align to memset (https://llvm.org/PR44388)
20. Folding 'gep p, (q - p)' to q should check it is never used for loads & stores (https://llvm.org/PR44403)
21. StraightLineStrengthReduce can introduce UB when optimizing 2-dim array gep (https://llvm.org/PR44533)
22. SLPVectorizer should drop nsw flags from add (https://llvm.org/PR44536)
23. InstCombine doesn't propagate correct alignment (https://llvm.org/PR44543)
24. DSE not checking decl of libcalls (https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/commit/87407fc03c82d880cc42330a8e230e7a48174e3c & https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/commit/7f903873b8a937acec2e2cc232e70cba53061352)
25. InstCombine incorrectly rewrites indices of gep inbounds (https://llvm.org/PR44861)
26. InstCombine incorrectly transforms store i64 -> store double (https://llvm.org/PR45152)
27. Incorrect optimization of gep without inbounds + load -> icmp eq (https://llvm.org/PR45210)
28. gep(ptr, undef) isn't undef (https://llvm.org/PR45445)
29. Incorrect transformation: (undef u>> a) ^ -1 -> undef >> a, when a != 0 (https://llvm.org/PR45447)
30. Invalid undef splat in instcombine (https://llvm.org/PR45455)
31. Incorrect transformation of minnum with nnan (https://llvm.org/PR45478)
32. Can't remove insertelement undef (https://llvm.org/PR45481)
33. InstSimplify: fadd (nsz op), +0 incorrectly removed (https://llvm.org/PR45778)
34. Incorrect instcombine fold of control-flow to umul.with.overflow (https://llvm.org/PR45952)
35. Incorrect instcombine fold of vector ult -> sgt (https://llvm.org/PR45954)
36. Jumpthreading introduces jump on poison (https://llvm.org/PR45956)
37. X86InterleavedAccess introduces misaligned loads (https://llvm.org/PR45957)
38. load-store-vectorizer vectorizes non consecutive loads (https://llvm.org/PR46591)
39. Incorrect transformation: mul foo, undef -> shl foo, undef (https://llvm.org/PR47133)
40. Incorrect transformation: (llvm.maximum undef, %x) -> undef (https://llvm.org/PR47567)
41. LoopReroll incorrectly reorders stores across loads when they may alias (https://llvm.org/PR47658)
42. InstCombine: incorrect select operand simplification with undef (https://llvm.org/PR47696)
43. MemCpyOpt: uses sext instead of zext for memcpy/memset size subtraction (https://llvm.org/PR47697)
44. SCEVExpander introduces branch on poison (https://llvm.org/PR47769)
45. Incorrect transformation of fabs with nnan flag (https://llvm.org/PR47960)
46. Loop peeling introduces OOB stores (https://llvm.org/PR48125)
47. Loop vectorizer introduces gep inbounds with negative offset (https://llvm.org/PR48126)
48. DSE incorrectly removes store in function that only triggers UB in one of the branches (https://llvm.org/PR48521)
49. Incorrect swap of fptrunc with fast-math instructions (https://llvm.org/PR49080)


### Bugs found in Z3
1. Incorrect bitblast for fprem (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2369)
2. Bug in FPA w/ quantifiers (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2596)
3. Bug in FPA w/ quantifiers (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2631)
4. Crash in partial model mode (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2652)
5. Crash when printing multi-precision integer (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2761)
6. Bug with lambdas and quantified variables (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2792)
7. Bug in MBQI (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2822)
8. Bug with equality of arrays w/ lambdas (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/commit/0b14f1b6f6bb33b555bace93d644163987b0c54f)
9. Crash in FPA model construction (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2865)
10. Crash in BV theory assertion (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2878)
11. Assertion violation in SMT equality propagation (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/2879)
12. Assertion violation in qe_lite (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/commit/bb5edb7c653f9351fe674630d63cdd2b10338277)
13. SMT internalize doesn't respect the timeout (https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/issues/4192)
